# Write-a-shell
Homework 3: Write your own shell
Homework objectives:

Learn how to use system calls
Learn how to create child processes
Learn how to catch signals
Learn basic I/O redirection
Repository

Use this link to create your lab 3 repository: https://classroom.github.com/assignment-invitations/31781dd6f1e0e3f1ddff41f5e92ac023

The programming part

For this assignment you are to write a simple program that will act as a shell. The program shall

Display a command prompt and read in a command line from the user.  You should use "361> " as your prompt.
Parse the command line into arguments, creating an array of character pointers, where array[0] points to the actual command and rest of the array elements point to the arguments to the command (Similar to main()’s argv[])
Fork off a child and have the child load the requested program by passing the argument vector created in step 2 to exec() family of system calls. The parent should report the PID of the child before proceeding to the next step.  You should use the format "PID: 5", where the child's PID is 5.
Wait for the child to complete executing and report that it ended and its exit value if available, by printing "Exit: 0" (assuming its exit value is 0).
Repeat for first step forever till user enters the command exit
Your shell should also support basic I/O redirection line the unix shell.
command > filename Redirects the output of command to filename. The existing contents of filename are overwritten.
command >> filenameRedirects the output of command to filename. The output from command is appended to contents of filename. Existing contents are not overwritten.
command < filename Command reads its input from filename instead of from stdin.
Your shell should handle the following signals:
SIGINT - Generated by Ctrl-C. This signal allows a user to teminate a running program. Your shell should not exit when user presses Ctrl-C but simply report that SIGINT signal has been received by the shell by printing "SIGINT handled".
SIGTSTP - Generated by Ctrl-Z. Your shell should not exit when user presses Ctrl-Z but simply report that SIGTSTP signal has been received by the shell by printing "SIGTSTP handled".
The shell need not support background processes or running more than one child at a time.
your personal repository

Note that there is no skeleton code for the homework. Going to lab sections is highly advisable, as the TA has been and will be explaining basics of getting started with a shell. Both the lab section code, as well as code found in the book or book slides, are “fair game” from which to begin your coding. Previous solutions, or other students’ work, are off limits and any cheating will be prosecuted to the fullest extent of university rules. There are solutions on the Internet. If we find you using them, we will give you an F in the class. Don’t look at them, don’t use them. It is not worth it.

Template

WHen you turn in the assignment, the TA should be able to compile your program by running gcc -o hw3 hw3.c. You are free to include any files e.g. hw3.h, it just has to compile using the above command. Make sure you also include a "netid.md" file with your netid.  Submit by creating a branch named "submission" in your lab 3 repository, and adding the files you wish to turn in to this branch.
